Some helpful tips:
• Always shut off the water supply and open all your taps to drain them before starting any repairs.
• Put in the drain plug or put a towel in the bottom of the sink so you don’t lose any parts down the drain.
• If taking the faucet apart, lay out parts in the order you took them off to make reassembly easier.
• Take parts with you to the store to get the correct replacement
•  If you find the valve is highly corroded, replace the entire stem or faucet (see faucet graphics on
following pages for more details).
•  Clean corrosion and mineral buildup from valve seats, valve stems, springs, seals, discs, and filter cones with
a scour pad, vinegar, or brush as you go as. Calcium or mineral build-up can be a contributing factor
to leaks, as these deposits may cause parts to not fit together properly.


1. Finding and Repairing Faucet Leaks
Leaks from faucets are usually caused by either drips from the faucet head or leaks from the handle or base. The key
to repairing faucets is to find and replace the rubber washers, seals and o-rings, as these components tend to wear
out or corrode over time.
Replacing the Aerator
Aerators are small screens that screw onto taps and reduce the water flow by
increasing the amount of air in the spray pattern. A low flow aerator can cost
as little as $4.00 and reduces water flow to 5.7 litres per minute.
Replacing an aerator washer is quick, easy and inexpensive.
Unscrew your aerator from your faucet.
 If there is calcium or mineral build up on the aerator, soaking it
in vinegar should help loosen things up to make removal easier.
 Take your old washer with you to the hardware store to buy
the correct replacement, or easier yet, for a few dollars more,
buy a whole new aerator.


2. Washerless Faucet Repairs
This type of faucet can be a single lever or two handles and comes in four basic
types (disc, valve, cartridge and ball-and-cam). Repairs work best with a repair kit
designed for your particular model.
Ball and Cam Faucets
Ball faucets have a free moving lever attached to a hollow metal or plastic ball inside
the body of the faucet. This ball rotates to align with the hot and cold water inlets.
Helpful Tip: It is important that you replace
this ball in the same position as you found
it as this will ensure you do not switch the
hot and cold direction of the lever.
 Remove the handle. Push the single lever to
the side to find the setscrew. There may be
a decorative cover in the hole. Remove by
slipping a flat blade screwdriver under it.
 You will need the right size of Allen key to
remove the setscrew. Unscrew the screw and
pull or pry the handle off the stem.
 Leaky base? Replace the o-rings on the
faucet body.
 Leaky handle? Tighten the adjusting ring using
an adjusting ring wrench and/or replace the
cam washer that sits above the ball.
 If the ball is corroded, replace it.
 Leaky spout? The valve seats or springs are worn
out. To access the valve seats and springs, you’ll
need to remove the cam, cam washer and ball.



